import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import ExplainIndex from '!!raw-loader!./explain-index';
import ExplainIndex2 from '!!raw-loader!./explain-index2';
import Typescript from '!!raw-loader!./typescript';

# React with Typescript

The fun is starting! In this section I will try to explain all the need-to-knows about React and Typescript, combined!

## Setup

First go where you want to be developing, and create a new next-app using the following command:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest --ts
```

Open the project in VSCode, run `yarn dev` and open `/pages/index.tsx` in the editor.

Also open your browser on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). This should show your newly created Next.js React TypeScript site!

## Explaining all the new stuff

As you can see in this file, there's a lot of new stuff for us! This is TypeScript based React. I have copied the file inhere and will explain what everything means using comments.

<CodeBlock language="tsx">{ExplainIndex}</CodeBlock>

Wow. That was a lot of info.... So what now?

- I'm going to explain you the basics of Typescript.
- Then the basics of React.
- Then the basics of Next.js

## Typescript Basics

I'm going to tell you more about variables, logging, primitive types, string literals, operators, comparisons, typeof and creating your own types. I'll do this by creating a script that you can copy and paste into your `/pages` folder.

Before that... Please paste this into your `/pages/index.tsx`. I've done a couple changes so you can navigate to this new page that we're going to create. Can you see what I did?

<CodeBlock language="tsx">{ExplainIndex2}</CodeBlock>

Just copy paste it and see what happens... You can then create a new file called `typescript.tsx` and put it in your `/pages` folder. Paste the following in there, but don't execute it yet. Try to understand what it does first.

<CodeBlock language="tsx">{Typescript}</CodeBlock>

## Comparisons

## Typeof

## Props

## differences from html

## events

## useState

## useEffect
