# Git

Git is needed for version control, deployment, and for collaboration in a team.
The most important things you need to know about git are the following:

## GitHub

First you need to have a remote repository to be able to push your changes to. If you didn't already, just create that on [github](https://github.com/new) and running this in your folder:

```bash
git init
```

## Pushing your changes

This is how to add something to git

```bash
git add filePath
```

To add all stuff you changed, you can just do `git add .` for simplicity

After adding your files to your staged files, you need to commit them. It can be done with the following command

```bash
git commit -M 'your message'
```

This will commit your changes, ready to be pushed to your remote repository.

After adding and committing, all that's left is to push.

```bash
git push
```

## Cloning

```bash
git clone [url]
```

This clones a public repo (or a repo you have access to) to your computer. After that you can make changes, and push and pull.

## Pulling

```bash
git pull
```

This fetches changes on the repo on your branch

## Making a new branch

You can easily change your branch with the following command

```bash
git branch -M branchname
```

## Checking out an existing branch

```bash
git checkout branchname
```

It's no rocket science...

## Stashing and getting it back

Sometimes you have changes while the branch you were working on changed. You can easily continue by doing the following:

```bash
git stash
git pull
git stash pop
```

## Gitignore

If you don't want something to be added to your git, make sure you have a `.gitignore` file that mentions it.

This gitignore file can contain any [**glob pattern**](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glob_(programming)>) of files. These files will be ignored. A `.gitignore` file can be located anywhere in your repository, doesn't matter.

## Workflow

Usually, when you're working in a team, it is expected that you make a new branch when you start working on something. Once you're done you can make a PR from the GitHub.com UI.

It is good practice to push your changes to remote as often as possible. Don't leave your stuff local at the end of the day. Always make a PR so others can see what you have been working on. If it's not done, just call it a work in progress (#wip).

## Pull requests (PR's)

Once you have finished a branch and pushed it, open the "pull requests" tab in your github repo, and create a new one. Select your branch and open a pr to merge it to the main one (usually `main` or `live`, or the one that you want to merge it to, e.g. `test`)

You can then see all your changes and create the PR. Then someone can review it and merge it if it's good enough.

## Best practices

Keep the following in mind

- Never push big files and folders (e.g. `/node_modules`) to `.git`, it messes up your repo. If you made a mistake like that, you can always fix it, but I'm not going to explain that. Just [google it](https://www.google.com/search?q=revert+git+commit)
- At [sensible](https://sensiblestack.com) I've decided to keep `live` as the main branch and if we have a testing environment we should all call it `test`, to keep it simple and easy to understand.

## That's it!

That's about it for git! Do you want to know more, just have a look at [their docs](https://git-scm.com/doc).

If you ever run in a problem, you can just google it.

<details><summary>Let's git going!</summary>

I would recommend writing all of these commands down (on your hand?) so you can easily find them. Also it wouldn't hurt to just repeat them over and over in your head for about half an hour, so you'll never have to go back to docs.

This is all I thought you in a small form:

```bash
init
add
commit -M
push
clone
pull
branch -M
checkout
stash
stash pop
```

If you don't know what this means, just read it again and try this out (recursively 😄)

</details>

<details><summary>Wizard stuff!</summary>

Everything you do with the `git cli` can also be done using the file system. Everything you do is saved in the hidden `.git` folder! Just try and have a look, `cd .git` inside the root of your git repository and `ls` there. It's pretty cool!

Think about the stuff you could do with all this data! Programs like [wakatime](https://wakatime.com) also use it in order to provide their services.

</details>
